Okay, let's recap.
Web components have a life cycle, right?
So that's kinda they go
through some code for
you just like every other
JavaScript framework.
There are libraries that help make
writing Web Components easier,
just makes it more
palatable to developers.
And there are lots of different
flavors of Web Components.
And I almost promise you if you have
one particular must have somebody's
probably addressed it, and
is working on it in some context.
And even some Js frameworks can import and
export Web Components.
And I don't really show it here but
I've actually found in preparing for
this course or
even just taking questions
about Web Components, something
like Lit is really awesome because
there's a whole community around it.
Your framework or your library is
only as strong as your community.
But there's a community around it,
they're building projects and
prototypes and different ideas and
things like reactive context and
stuff like that, context API's and
stuff like that that.
That work's all happening
at the community level and
then hopefully it goes
into the big project.
So, or
it just lives in the community level.
All that stuff is very exciting and
interesting.
But, so one reason you may want to use
a framework or a library I should say,
is maybe some of those problems,
those must haves for you,
exist in the community level
whereas writing it all from scratch
in vanilla Web Components would just
be maybe a little too daunting or
just time consuming,
we all gotta get work done so, yes.
>> You may touch on this later but
are there ways that like lazy load these
components so that they don't
load if you don't need them?
>> Right like as you need them?
[COUGH] Yeah, so
the way you structure imports and
exports, it builds out a tree and
if you just want to use vanilla inputs,
right?
It'll only import a file if
it's requested on the page.
So, my shadow, what was it called?
[LAUGH] Shadow element or
whatever that I demoed,
shadow scroller that's what it was.
My shadow scroller will only
request shadow scroller in Lit, or
something like that.
And then the next Component that
loads will just either their grab
the copy of Lit that exists and
then it's code.
But maybe it has a child component,
it will load that one.
But this sort of involves in like
a multi-page architecture, so
your page determines what gets loaded.
In a single page context,
that gets into this sort of bundling and
deployment stuff, and that's where
you're gonna kinda wanna like do
the intelligent bundling and
code splitting to make sure
that you're serving the least
amount as possible to the client.
Does that help?
>> Yep.
>> Okay.
>> Kind of a follow up to that then.
So let's say you do have
a Web kinda Component.
If you're referencing another
Web Component in that Web Component then,
does the, I'm guessing the ordering
matters of your imports and
stuff like that, or
is that possible to even do that?
>> Like if I'm referencing
a Component in a Component?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah, you totally can do that.
Yeah, I mean,
I guess it's maybe possible you reference,
Component A references Component B
which also includes Component A,
that's maybe a disaster, you could create.
[LAUGH] But again, Web Component
stopped preventing you from bad code,
but I don't know what it does in that.
The browser must bail after three tries or
three loops or something,
probably bails after a recursion,
but yeah.
So you have Web Component A and Web
Component B that requires C that requires
D, it'll negotiate that, the native
import structure will negotiate all that.
It is like in production, it's slow,
it's a network request every single time.
So you maybe want to bundle in production,
but
that's kinda the Web Component
philosophy is these, the bundling, and
the code splitting and all that, that's at
the end, that's an application problem.
That is not how to author a Web Component
problem, so we have a question.
>> Is it more common to use
Web Components by themselves or
together with a framework?
>> That's a good question.
I don't know.
I could maybe get that data.
I think a lot of Web Components
happen in some kinda framework.
Like a material UI Web Component thing or
a,
I guess they call it
material Web Components or
Salesforce lightning Web Components.
I don't know how many Salesforce
websites there are in existence, but
I think it's billions, isn't?
So, 90% of businesses
repurpose Salesforce.
But no, I think a lot of people
are using them in a suite.
I don't know if a lot of people
are kind of plucking one offs and
stitching together a thing.
I think a lot of people
are kinda building a system or,
using an existing system
to piggyback off of.
Yes.
>> Why use a template and
clone rather than just setting
the inner HTML of the shatter?
>> It's a good question.
I think that's possible.
I think what we're trying
to get away from just
as an industry in general
is using inner HTML.
And in just that,
it's unsafe, somebody could,
if you're getting WYSIWYG
content from your database,
your WordPress API, and
you're spitting it out in your Component,
the Component could in theory kind of hack
your whole website because
you've just ran inner HTML.
I looked into the Lit HTML tag template,
and it's really interesting.
It does some sanitization,
and stuff like that.
So you're not gonna,
open up a big security hole doing that.
So, I think just in general,
the practice of using inner HTML,
it's sort of a quick and
dirty way to do it.
I'm not super [LAUGH] good at
experimenting but we could try.
I mean so one thing you can do like
this.renderRoot.textContent = 'Hello'.
I think I can, see now I'm in Lit and
I'm mad, cuz I don't know what Lit wants.
But we could try entering HTML whenever.
[LAUGH] we could try this and
see what happens.
It not liking that.
So I don't know if Lit specifically
is preventing us there.
But I can experiment and
try to figure that out.
So, I don't see it that often which
makes me think you don't want to do.